# Section 2: Week 6: Cutting-Edge Database Technology

Relational databases have been around for 40 years. More recently, the need for database solutions that do not strictly adhere to the traditional rules of relational databases has grown based on changing needs of organizations. Traditional databases strictly adhered to an ACID (atomicity, consistency, isolation, durability) test. Newer technology does not. Another new technology involves an open-source software framework designed for distributed storage and processing of large datasets. What does this mean? Big data! Many times, you can find the newest ideas and research in conference proceedings.

An emerging area in data storage is No-SQL databases, which represents a tremendous shift from the traditional relational databases. Relational databases represent very structured ways of storing data—using rows, columns, and schemas. No-SQL databases, such as MongoDB, do not rely on these structures and represent a much more flexible data model. While traditional relational databases definitely offer many advantages, No-SQL databases offer tremendous advantages when seeking to store unstructured data. Common examples of unstructured data include user and session data; chat, messaging, and log data; time series data, such as IoT and device data; and large objects such as video and images.

While not a required activity for the week, you should download and use [MongoDB](https://www.MongoDB.com) or another No-SQL database for a simple data storage activity. Conduct a simple tutorial to better understand how No-SQL databases work.
