# Section 2: Week 5: Theory to Practice: Business Intelligence

Last week, we discussed databases and data management, and the gap between theory and practice. This week, the topic is business intelligence (BI). `BI is often referred to as an extension of the data in databases. While the data may be the same, or a derived form of the data, BI is much more than just a copy of a database`. BI can provide a predictive view of a business’s operations. BI systems allow organizations improved enterprise decision-making capabilities. BI aims to be a comprehensive, enterprise-wide platform. The question is: Does that solution work in all organizations? This question may highlight one of the differences between theory and practice.

There are many types of various BI related tools that offer varying advantages. Many types of BI technology uses data visualization techniques for design charts and other useful infographics along with tolls for producing BI dashboards and even performance score hands which display business metrics and other performance metrics. In addition to providing robust and accurate data, these tools frequently make the data much easier to understand. Other interesting components of BI tools include advanced analytics, data mining, big data analytics, predictive analysis, statistical analysis, and text mining. Data scientists frequently uses these tools alongside statistics and predictive models However, as these tools become more widespread and easy to use, more and more groups with less formal training in data and data analytics are effectively using these tools. Regardless of the tools, they all generally function the same way by collecting raw data from various sources; integrating, consolidating and cleansing the data; and then using data quality tools to ensure its accuracy before analyzing it.
